Transportation Revolution

Murder of Jane McCrae:
	American lithograph depicting Indians
	Based on an actual event, but exaggerated, of course

Marshall Court:
	John Marshall - Federalist, established diplomat
	When John Jay resigns as Chief Justice, Marshall gets job
	This is only a few weeks before Midnight Judges
	Marshall serves for 35 years. (Jefferson, Madison, JQAdams, and some of AJackson)
	Marshall dominates the supreme court in this timeframe
		Court doesn't give multiple opinions at this point
		Marshall writes most of the decisions and the other justices just go along with it
	Marshall's decisions mostly limit the power of the states
	Marbury vs Madison (1803):
		Marshall gets away with Judicial review
	Fletcher vs Peck (1810):
		Uphold or not judications of Yazoo lands?
		Georgia actions revoking earlier contracts are invalid.
		Not the first time the Supreme Court ruled a law invalid, but this emphasizes it
	Martins vs Hunters Lasi (sp?):
		Virginia lands
	Trustees of Dartmouth College vs Woodword (Sec of State for NH) 1819:
		Who should be appointing trustees to Dartmouth College?
		Trustees are all federalists, and they generally reappoint themselves
		Resists ruling by NH that they need to have an open election
		Trustees get Daniel Webster as a lawyer
		Supreme court rules that the original charter was a contract and the state cannot unilaterally revoke a contract.
		Thereafter, states add ``subject to modification'' to their contracts
	Accepts Jurisdiction on a case involving US bank McCulleh vs Maryland
		Issue is resentment against the thinking of the US bank by republican people
		MD wants to tax the building of the bank in Baltimore
		Resistance from the guy in the building
		Marshall writes a very important ruling:
			Yes it is constitutional (by the elastic clause) to have a bank
			State cannot tax national property
			Why? The state could just tax it out of existence
		Hence, the states must ask for money. Similarly, the government can't tax state buildings
		The power to tax is the power to destroy
		Ex. It's legal to buy ``dum dum'' bullets. As a way to remove them, put a huge tax (Helm says \~8000\%) on them.
	Ogden wants to run ferry boats in competition with those who have the federal monopoly. He gets a monopoly from the state
		Gibbons vs Ogden (1824)
		Court rules that the constitution gives the right to control interstate commerce to the central government
		Since this is interstate, the federal monopoly holds
		Makes the economy mostly a national economy
	All these decisions are unanimous by the Supreme Court

Impression that anyone can get ahead in Jacksonian Democracy
More wealth, more people stay poor.
In Boston, the 10% richest people own about 50% of everything.
By 1833, only 4% of people are necessary to own 60% of Boston.
In NY, wealthiest 4% control 50% of wealth.
Note: these stats are formed on the basis of wills.

Soon, wealth segregation appears.
Social clubs appear for the wealthy.
In Philadelphia, it's the Philadelphia club. Entrance rates high, costs a lot, but it gives you a name.
Indebtedness is increasing due to buying frontier land.
By the end of this period, 3/8 of all the males in the country own only their clothes and a small amount of change.

Pauperism is seen as only for the disabled.
Rags to Riches stories rise.

Wealthy people begin to dress down to associate with the less wealthy.
Great economic mobility
Herman Melville - Father was in import/export business, but loses everything, so Melville gets a pretty bad start

Geographic Transience
Class of professionals:
	1765 - 1 medical school
	Now 6
	Doctors now advertise to get patients.
	Attack on hierarchy and status.
	1845 - All states eliminate all certification practices for being a doctor
	By Civil war, 60k doctors, but most of them have had no professional education

Thompsonionism:
	Steven Thompson
	Idea that the nasty medicines at this time are not that good.
	Eating natural foods are the secret to health.
	Some truth in it.

Equal treatment regardless of actual equality on frontier
	Lots of cooperation
	Can't have one person building a log cabin...

Alexis de Tocqueville (1805-1859):
	Manages to finagle a deal for he and his friend to come to the US
	After he goes back to France, he describes the American life.
	He travels quite widely, and gets in with everyone, not just the upper class.
	A celebration of Jacksonion Democracy
	de Tocqueville says that the lack of an Aristocracy corresponds with the lack of people to stymie progress.
	Example of Social change

Art is beginning to change as well:
	Reflects new perspective and new technology
	George Caleb Bingham paints several works of art depicting American life, but they are centered in MO
	One of them is ``Boatmen On The Missouri'' depicting peopel in a wooden boat hoping to sell some wood to a passing steamboat

Life on the frontier is not very nice.
None of the conveniences of more urban living.

Blacks hurt most from racial prejudice
	1821 - NY removes property requirement for voting for all but blacks
	Around this time - Other states ban blacks from voting
	Racial prejudice
	PA bans blacks from voting
Upper class women have separate sphere as a result of Republican Motherhood
	They now become queens of the household while the man is away
	Cult of Domesticity
	Does this empower women or just give them a separate role?
Birth Control becomes an issue
	Abstinence most common
	Books appear to avoid getting pregnant
	Children become more important
	They are rarer, so they become more lenient with physical abuse
	Raising children becomes less physical, no longer a labor source

``The Times Were Changing''
	Genre Art
	The Country Parson Disturbed at Breakfast by a Couple Wishing to be Married (1848 by Jerome Thompson)
	What was the couple doing in the night that they want to get married at 8 in the morning? kekeke

Rise of Romantic Love
	Families no longer marry off females just to perpetuate the family

Increased Horizonatal Association
	How to act?
	Howto books start to appear

Genre Art:
	Pepper Pot (1811 by John Jacob Krimmel, a German immigrant)
		Depicts a black lady selling pepper pot stew to poor people
		(Pepper pot is a spicy ministroni with whatever you can put into it)
	Genre art is for the middle classes, not the upper classes like art before.
