The United States buys out many large territories, such as Alaska.
Foreign trade ramps up
	Trading overseas is more profitable due to less competition
	Around 1898, US exports exceed our imports
	During the Gilded age, exports triple, imports double
	This continues up until the 1960s
	Technology supports the possibility
		Telegraphic cables for coordination
		Better ships for shipping
Alfred Thayer Mahan
	Becomes president of the Naval War College
	Writes a series of lectures saying that overseas trade is the key
McKinder
	Controlling the sea isn't important, controlling Europe is.

Hawaii
	A sequence of kings die, leading to David Kalakaua as king of Hawaii.
	Planter class forces Kalakaua to write and accept a constitution (known as the Bayonet Constitution due to the threat of force)
	1890 - McKinley Tariff is passed
		Cuts out the exemption for Hawaiian sugar
		Causes Hawaiian economy to tank
	1891 - King dies
		His sister becomes monarch of the slands - Lilui'okalani
		Decides that the country has been practically given away to the whites
		Takes measures to reestablish the native population
		Intends to revoke the Bayonet Constitution
		Planters takes over the Hwawaiian palace.
	Because enetering the United States means no tariff, Hawaii applies to enter the Union
		Lilui'okalani writes to the President Cleveland and said her nation had been taken over and Cleveland sends an investigator
		Finds that it's exactly as she said
		However, when asked what will happen to the uprising members, Lilui'okalani responds with hanging
		In response to that, Cleveland lets the situation progress.
Cuba
	Exemption for Cuban sugar is removed from the tariff
		Not meant to screw Cuba, but it does.
		Then Spain, who had just finished putting down revolt in Cuba, is in a bunch of trouble.

Yellow Press
	Havanna incident
	A US Ship blows up in Havanna Harbor
	In the eyes of the press, the Spanish planted a mine there.
	In actuality, it probably blew itself apart.

Teller Amendment
	No annexation of Cuba

Spanish-American War
	America wins every battle
	Spain just puts up enough resistance to create American war heros
	Spanish surrenders Manilla to the Unite dStates.
